[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I love satay.
Everybody loves satay.
This is a fantastic alternative
to peanut sauce-- a lot
of allergies out there.
This is just beautiful, and
especially on a Friday night,
especially in Australia,
where we have takeaway night.
Awesome.
And what I've noticed
over the years
is when I get a takeaway
meal, which I don't anymore,
it's in a container; it has
this oil slick on the top of it,
and it's full of MSG, and I
feel a little bit dehydrated,
and I go straight into
a food coma afterwards.
So this recipe is for us to have
that gorgeous feeling of satay,
but it nourishes your
organs at the same time.
So what I'm going to do is--
I've got my veggies ready--
I'm going to make my
satay sauce first.
Now as you can see,
my blender is yellow.
And that is because of turmeric.
That's life.
So I need some almond butter
in my yellow blender--
it's actually funny-- first.
So instead of using
peanuts, I'm using almonds.
So you get a very gorgeous,
rich, a very rich texture
from this sauce.
It's lovely.
And the almond
butter really does
mimic the flavor
of peanut butter,
actually, which is kind of cool.
Yum.
If anything it's
tastier, I think, anyway.
OK, to that I want
to add some ginger.
Look at the size of that.
[CHUCKLES] That's massive.
Just a little bit of ginger.
I'm going to wash this.
This is organic ginger.
We get this from
one of our suppliers
who's a local
farmer here in Bali.
So I don't like to
take the skins off.
And a lot of nutrients,
as my mother has told me
over the years,
stays in the skins--
really interesting.
So Mum, you'd be proud I'm
not peeling the ginger.
So I'm just going to grate this.
These are fantastic--
I've said this
before-- these microplanes.
They get a really
nice, even grate
there, as you can see in there.
Look at that.
Yum.
I want quite a bit
of ginger, and it
doesn't matter if a big chunk
falls in there like that.
it just doesn't matter because
it's going to grind down.
I'm just helping my
Vitamix on the way
here, take the pressure off.
Now we're going to
add some heat to that.
You can add chili.
I'm going to add cayenne
pepper, something different.
It just gives that--
I don't know.
There's something
about cayenne pepper.
It's not as mild as chili.
It has this heat, but
it's really yummy,
something different.
You don't have to put any chili
or cayenne pepper in it at all.
I'm just going to put, like,
not even 1/4 teaspoon in,
and I'm just going
to taste it as I go.
I want some sesame seed
oil and some maple syrup,
really important two ingredients
with this particular satay
sauce.
It brings it home
to that sataying--
sataying feeling.
[CHUCKLES] That's
actually funny.
And I need some soy as well.
And smelling once again,
and please do that at home.
I know your bottles are
all labeled and everything,
but it brings you
in the present,
and I think that's
a beautiful place
to be when you're cooking.
So a little bit of
soy, the savoriness
of sesame seed
oil, which I love,
and the sweetness of maple.
And if you don't have
any maple, you're
very welcome to use
honey or coconut sugar.
Or you could put dates in
there, if you like, just
to add that sweetness.
Now I need some water.
What is going to make this
a little bit more runnier,
and that's important because the
almond butter is quite thick.
So just a little bit of that.
You can have this as runny
and as thick as you like--
either, either-- it's up to you.
Salt and pepper, building
blocks of labor--
easy with the salt because
the soy has salt in there.
Pepper, definitely.
I know there's cayenne
pepper in there,
but you definitely want the
salt and pepper in there,
just easy on the salt.
Now we're going
to whisk this up.
I what the ginger to grind down.
I want everything to grind down.
I want a smooth, liquidy--
is liquidy a word?--
saucy texture.
So quite smooth the no chunks.
So starting on low and
then building your way up.
So that took me about--
I don't know?
10 seconds, maybe?
Oh, yeah, this is good.
It's actually quite
runny, which is good.
Oh, yeah.
Mmm.
That is good, if anything, it
needs a little bit more soy.
I can definitely taste
the sesame seed oil.
Oh, that's so good.
It's such a really wonderful
replacement to peanuts.
So many peanut
allergies out there.
This is the one.
OK, back on to low--
I'm just going to mix
that gently through,
the little bit of soy
that I popped in there.
OK, one more taste,
in with my finger.
Yes, yummy.
That's great.
OK, so that's done.
To my right, I've got
my steamer already on.
Be really careful with steam.
It can be quite dangerous
if you're not careful.
So I would like
to use maybe this.
Now you could have a bamboo
steamer, which is awesome,
and you can just take
that out like that.
And the bamboo
ones are the same.
So you don't have
to use your fingers
or worry about getting burned.
So that's ready.
That's on the ball.
That's steaming nicely.
Now we're going to
cut up our vegetables.
I'm just going to use
basic vegetables here--
some broccoli, some cauliflower,
just keep it simple.
And you can have it as small
or as chunky as you like.
I want this to steam
pretty quickly.
There's a few people in the
studio today that are hungry,
so this will definitely
hit the spot.
I've got some cauliflower.
Look at how cute this is.
It's like-- [HUMMING] Sorry.
Very cute organic food.
So cutting them into florets.
Fabulous.
And my mushrooms, I just
want to quarter them.
I want them quite
chunky and meaty.
Now remember what I
said in the last recipe,
in the [INAUDIBLE] tempeh, is
not to wash your mushrooms.
Fungis definitely absorb liquid,
and they wash away the flavor.
These have already
been pre-wiped-- just
wiping them around with a
damp cloth or a dry cloth.
Just a little bit of carrot
and a little bit of zucchini.
OK, as you can see, I'm
cutting through the zucchini--
it's off.
Such is life.
And I get down to there.
Ah, such is life.
But I've got about that
much out of a zucchini.
It's still OK to use the rest.
You don't need to
throw that away.
Actually, that's probably
all I really want.
So that's perfect.
Now, I've got my sprouts
last and my herbs.
I'm not going to steam that.
I'm going to steam the
hard vegetables first.
So I want my carrots and
my broccoli and cauliflower
in there first.
And I'm going to keep
these watery, softer
vegetables to last.
And the next thing I want to do
with this particular situation
that's happening here
is salt and pepper--
very important, building
blocks of flavor.
OK, we're going to let that go.
Our sauce is ready.
Now, the next thing
we're going to need
is some beautiful lemongrass.
I want to definitely put
this into the steamer,
this lemongrass as well.
Now, I want the softer side.
With your lemon grass, we don't
normally eat this part of it.
We normally eat this part of it.
Inside here, as you can see,
right in here is quite soft.
That's what you're after.
There's real soft,
sweet, delicate bits,
and they're quite
fragrant as well.
So just cutting your lemongrass
down like this really
easily, kind of
like a vanilla pod,
and you want that soft, fresh
situation in the center there.
Now with this, I would like
to say, I would keep that,
and I would tie that
in a knot, putting that
into a jug of boiling water.
Here we go.
You would probably put about
this much water in a jug
and this and some ginger,
and just let it steep,
and then you get a lovely,
fragrant, hot drink.
I'm going to put this in there.
That's going to steamed through.
Oh, yum.
That's actually
nearly, nearly ready--
nearly, nearly ready.
I think it's time to
put this stuff in.
So it's been on for
about maybe two minutes?
And that's enough
for those vegetables.
I'm just going to place that
on top, the watery ones.
I don't want things to be mush.
You know, when we go
out for a takeaway,
or we get a takeaway
dish, we want
it to be with a bit of
crispness in there, so not mush.
So another, maybe 1
minute and 1/2, 2 minutes.
And if you want mush,
you go right ahead.
It's just going to take longer.
This is coming in last, so
I'm going to turn this off now
actually because there's a few
other components to this dish
that's going to bring it home.
I want some spring
onions, which I
have some delightful
little isms here--
[CHUCKLES] isms, makes me laugh.
I've got some coriander,
and I've got those sprouts
that I want nice and
fresh. so I'm not
putting them into the steamer.
These herbs is just what
brings flavor to a dish.
[SINK GURGLING]
[CHUCKLES] My sink's talking.
Let's just give
them a quick dry.
They're a bit wet.
All right.
Now I'm just going to cut--
oh, that's a bit too much--
I'm just going to cut
the ends off that.
All right.
Just running your
knife through--
no rules here-- as chunky and
as fine as you want it to be.
This is where my
sprouts come into play.
Just mix it.
Oh, that smells so good.
Salt and pepper, building blocks
of flavor, really important--
really, really important--
and some onion.
Now, it's OK to have
raw onion, and it's
OK to put it in the
steamer as well.
In the recipe, it says
put it in the steamer.
Everything gets
really well steamed,
so we're just going to add
this in to the steamer now,
and it will just hit that
steam, get a little bit softer,
not so sharp.
And then we're ready to plate
up, and our sauce is ready.
All right, I'm excited.
This is the part I love with
food is making it look sexy.
That's the big thing.
People forget that.
We cook dinner.
We're in a rush.
But this is where
the fun begins.
That's all my bits on there.
You can definitely add some
chili into this if you want to.
It's just mixing
those flavors through.
Oh, I can smell that lemon
grass coming through.
It's like a lemon grass facial.
[CHUCKLES] Oh, yum--
a little bit more
salt and pepper.
This is just beautiful.
I've made a bit of a
mess here, but that's OK.
This is the goodness here.
Don't forget all that.
OK, I'm washing my hands.
I'm very excited.
This is gorgeous.
Enough for two,
maybe for three--
great salad for a barbecue,
great warm salad in winter.
Now, I want to put my sauce
into something, maybe this.
Yeah.
It's OK, we'll just
leave it at that.
A few hemp seeds, if
you've got them, just
for that extra protein.
You don't have to.
I've just got them
in front of me.
And that's it.
That is satay vegetables
without peanut sauce--
really tasty, really fragrant.
I can smell the
lemongrass from here.
I can smell the ginger
coming from this sauce.
Just beautiful-- you're
going to love it.
What a great way
to have a takeaway
without having the takeaway.
So we're putting in to our body
what nature requires from us
instead of taking away from what
nature doesn't require from us.
So enjoy.
And that-- stop-- (SINGING)
la-la-lasagne, la-la-lasagne.
Come on.
Give me the words, God.
I'm happy.
These are so good.
One more.
Mmm.
Back away from
the sauce, people.
Yum.
Want some?
[CHUCKLING] See ya.
[MUSIC PLAYING]